# Byzer-lang 2.3.2 Release Note

Release Date: `2022-08-10`

We are pleased to announce that today we officially released the **Byzer（Byzer-lang） 2.3.2**  version, which provides a more flexible and stable Byzer engine.

We regret that after the release of Byzer (Byzer-Lang) version 2.3.2 at the scheduled time in July, we found a bug in the user download package. In order to prevent more community users from being affected, we urgently removed the download link of the installation package and uploaded the latest installation package.

### **Major Changes**

1.  In this version, we have made a lot of revisions to the official user manual, mainly as follows:

   a. Adjust the structure of the manual, divide data processing and analysis into three chapters: `Data Ectract`, `Data Transform` and `Save Data`, and adjust some contents as well.

   b. Test and revise the contents of JDBC data source and Text data source in `Data Transform` and `Save Data` chapter

   c. A section on exploratory data analysis has been added.

We will continue to revise the contents of the user manual in the next iteration. For official documentation, please refer https://docs.byzer.org/.

2. In this version, we have made some fixes and expand the capabilities for Data Summary ET:

   a. Support filtering null values when calculating Quantile values

   b. When the proportion of unique value (distinct count) in DataSummary ET is calculated using `approx_count_distinct`, there is a certain error. Therefore, set the `approx` calculation switch to support the precise calculation (There may exist data bottleneck for large data).

   c. Change the String data length

   d. Add the `mode` value calculation for columns.

   e. Optimize the type of aggregate value of the operator, returning `int` for the operator of "count".

   f. To restore the return result of "Mean Values", the number of decimal places should be reserved according to `round_at`

   g. By default, two decimals "xx.yy %" are reserved for percentage display. `Round_at` + 2 decimals are reserved for calculation.

   h. Optimize Quantile calculations to support precise computation of quantile values (Hint: be aware of data performance bottlenecks when used)

For more details please refer： https://docs.byzer.org/#/byzer-lang/zh-cn/ml/eda/README

### Enhancement

- [byzer-extension/pull/25]（https://github.com/byzer-org/byzer-extension/pull/25）

  Enhance YAML visualization

- [byzer-extension/issues/23]（https://github.com/byzer-org/byzer-extension/issues/23）

  Add frequency distribution ET plug-in

### Bugfix

- [byzer-lang/issues/1796](https://github.com/byzer-org/byzer-lang/issues/1796) 

Upgrade the OpenJDK version in Byzer All in One 2.3.1 product package . The current JDK version may cause file writing failure.

- [byzer-lang/issues/1649]（https://github.com/byzer-org/byzer-lang/issues/1649）

Add pathPrefix for modelExplain

### Downloads

To download the Byzer binary installation package, click the link below:

https://download.byzer.org/byzer/2.3.2/

### Feedback

If you meet any problem, please submit an issue in project Byzer-lang

Or contact PMC Member：pmc@byzer.org

Welcome data developers to join and build community ecology.

### Acknowledgments

Thanks to those who contributed code to Byzer-lang 2.3.2 (the following ranks are in no particular order): WilliamZhu，hellozepp，jiachuan.zhu，Zhengshuai PENG，ckeys，Lindsaylin